Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
My god.
It goes down. like.
more than two meters.
Usually. it is a burial chamber.
We need to know
what is in there.
Soon as you reach the bones.
you let me know.
Can he see anything?
Maybe there's
something underneath.
There is a bone here.
I can see one skull here.
An archeologist
in Egypt claimed today
to be on the verge of finding
the burial place of Cleopatra.
One of the
greatest treasures of all time.
But the final
burial spot has remained
a mystery for centuries.
For 20 years
I've been searching
for Queen Cleopatra.
Cleopatra has long
been a figure of fascination.
She's captivated
our collective imagination
for 2.000 years.
Idolized by some
and defamed by others.
But we don't have the
full story of Queen Cleopatra.
For two decades
archeologist Kathleen Martinez
has been searching for
her final resting place...
I've sifted through
the lies and the myth
to find the truth.
...sweeping away convention...
There is a big
mystery in this temple.
...and building her case.
She came at it
as if she was a criminal lawyer
trying to figure out whodunnit.
People tell her
you are crazy.
but to have the good things.
you must be crazy.
you must be risky.
She's
a fighter. she never give up.
Kathleen's
investigation is rewriting
our understanding of one
of the most famous women
to have ever lived.
One day I will come
face to face to Queen Cleopatra.
I want to look at her and say.
"You haven't been forgotten."
When you start
a normal day excavating.
you don't know what will happen
during that day of excavation.
Most of the time
we'll not find anything.
Archeology is hard. complicated.
But I never imagined that
it would take me years.
years of excavations to reach
to the most important
discoveries we have today.
It's an entrance.
we can see an entrance.
The location
of Cleopatra's tomb
is one of the greatest
mysteries of the ancient world.
Now. after decades
of searching.
Kathleen Martinez may have
uncovered a major clue.
Okay. look.
Oh. god.
So creepy. look.
A shaft
leading to a tunnel
buried beneath the walls
of a ruined temple.
At the end
of the tunnel. there is a wall.
but it's almost completely
covered with water.
It took us more than three weeks
to reach the bottom.
It goes all the way. 25 meters.
and then opens up.
going to the north
and to the south.
Imagine how long it have taken
from them to build and chisel
by hand. these tunnels.
And this is the original line
that the engineer
2.000 years ago draw
for the workers that were
chiseling this tunnel.
In ancient Egypt.
colossal passages like this
were a huge undertaking.
Excavated by hand
over months or even years.
Whatever this tunnel was for.
it had to be important.
A fascinating story.
it's a surprising discovery.
this morning in Egypt.
an ancient tunnel found
beneath a temple that could
now lead to Cleopatra's tomb!
They are starting
an excavation in Egypt
hoping to unearth
Cleopatra's tomb.
They found
the entrance using
ground-penetrating radar.
and when they got inside of it.
they realized that
it is massive.
The tunnel reaches to
the edge of the temple site.
beyond which. it's blocked
by modern developments.
We think the tunnel
goes beneath a highway.
beneath a modern resort
and continues to
the Mediterranean Sea.
Why would be a tunnel
leading us to the sea?
For Kathleen to
investigate the tunnel further.
she's going to need help.
I thought
I was going back to
the Battlefield of Midway.
and I got derailed
when I got a phone call
from an amazing individual
who I didn't know.
her name was Kathleen Martinez.
To find out where
the tunnel leads.
Kathleen has recruited
legendary deep-sea explorer.
Dr. Bob Ballard.
The first shipwreck I ever
discovered was the Titanic.
Bingo. yeah! Haaa!
Oh. I love it! I love it!
But since then I've discovered
many. many chapters
of human history.
And so I'm genuinely excited
about all aspects of it.
Why was there a tunnel and
why was it pointing out to sea?
Bob and his team
are hoping to find out
exactly where the tunnel leads.
by conducting
a search underwater.
Well. we're at what's
gonna become basecamp
for the expeditions.
Over the next month
this is gonna be transformed
into a real command center.
This is not a. a simple
hole in the ground.
this is a very
sophisticated tunnel.
The database that we collect
will grow and grow and grow.
until we finally know
what's out there.
So. stay tuned.
Kathleen is used
to gathering evidence.
This is a case she's been
building for over two decades.
I dedicated years
studying Queen Cleopatra.
I read everything that has
been written about her.
Cleopatra was
a remarkable woman.
Crowned at 18.
Cleopatra was born into
the Ptolemaic Dynasty.
a Macedonian-Greek
line of pharaohs.
begun by Alexander the Great.
some 250 years earlier.
Her father. Ptolemy XII.
named her as an heir
before his death.
She was destined to rule
alongside her younger brother.
normal practice
for the Ptolemies.
but unusually. she soon
asserted her seniority
over him.
What Cleopatra achieved
was really extraordinary.
regardless of her sex.
She spoke nine languages.
she knew about statecraft.
she had a sense of. you know.
mathematics. uh. economy.
So. really. she was
the full package.
True female leaders
were incredibly rare
in the ancient world.
In 3.000 years
of Egyptian history.
only a handful of women
ruled in more than name.
She accomplished
so much in a time
when women were so restricted.
When I understood her life.
I realized that she was
a different character than
the Romans portrayed her.
The version of
Cleopatra handed down to us
by history. was provided
almost entirely
by the people responsible
for her downfall: the Romans.
History is written
by the victors.
and this is what happened
in the case of Cleopatra.
The Romans wrote the history
saying that she was a great
seductress. she was a whore.
she was this awful
eastern witch.
And this fake news
becomes real news
that persists for centuries.
Over time. the
legends surrounding Cleopatra
became as famous
as the woman herself.
A seductress.
A harlot. who bathed
in asses' milk.
So conniving. she gained
an audience with Julius Caesar
by hiding in a carpet.
But despite the staying power
of these stories.
there's no evidence at all
to support them.
It was
a malignant campaign.
propaganda against her.
and she doesn't deserve
to be remembered that way.
She was a woman
who achieved things
that no other woman had before.
But history is not fair
with her.
and I decided to
find out the truth.
The real Cleopatra.
Since I was a kid.
I want to be an archeologist.
My father told me no. you're not
going to lose your time.
studying archeology
does nothing.
you have to choose a real
profession. a real career.
I have my own law firm
since I was 21 years old.
But I never forgot about
archeology and Queen Cleopatra.
In 2004.
Kathleen Martinez decided
to pursue her dream.
My father told me
not to go to Egypt.
He said to me that I was risking
my career for this crazy project
of searching for the tomb
of Queen Cleopatra.
But I knew that this is
what I wanted to do.
I can't describe the emotions
and the feelings that I had
when I arrived to Egypt.
I was able to see with my own
eyes where Cleopatra once lived.
Kathleen was determined
to rewrite Cleopatra's story.
based not on Roman propaganda.
but hard evidence.
I have a degree
in archeology.
but the ideas that
come to my mind
are not 100%
as an archeologist.
because my main training is
as a criminal lawyer.
As a criminal lawyer.
we encounter many mistakes
and assumptions.
One part of
Cleopatra's story
in particular
stood out to Kathleen.
It was the mystery
of her death that fascinated me.
The Roman accounts
of Cleopatra's death
suggest that she died
in Alexandria.
buried somewhere near
the royal palace.
The accounts we have say that
she was buried in the royal
quarters in Alexandria.
but no historians have mentioned
visiting her grave.
and the location of her tomb
remains a mystery.
So. where is Cleopatra?
For Kathleen.
the story of Cleopatra's burial
doesn't add up.
The Romans defeated her.
and custom at the time
was for the leader
of a conquered nation
to be captured. taken to Rome.
and paraded in
symbolic triumph.
If Cleopatra had been
taken to Rome.
she would have been mutilated.
and her body would
have been. you know.
maybe left to the birds
to peck at. or even burned.
But instead. a statue
of Cleopatra was paraded
through the streets of Rome
as if she had been there
and was this prisoner.
I believe she would
have done anything
to stop her body to be
in the hands of the Romans.
so she prepared a way to be
smuggled away from Alexandria.
What if Cleopatra was buried
somewhere else entirely?
Kathleen studied
the ancient records.
including that of Roman
historian Plutarch.
who wrote in detail
about Cleopatra's death.
This text.
it's really important.
because here Plutarch confirms
that Cleopatra built a tomb
very close to
the Temple of Isis.
And this was my first clue.
For the ancient Egyptians.
the kings and the queens were.
in fact. divine incarnations
on Earth. and Cleopatra's sort
of patron deity was Isis.
Isis as a goddess
was. of course. power.
the great mother.
and great of magic.
So really the fact that
she was shown as Isis meant
that she was representing the
safety and security of Egypt.
The divine connection
between Cleopatra and Isis
could be the way
to reveal her tomb.
After years of research.
I thought. I had to test
my theory.
Kathleen began
her search by investigating
all the temples near
to where Cleopatra died.
I visited all
of those temples. one by one.
Dismissing them if
they were very small
or if they were not
a temple of Isis.
There was one temple that
sometimes appears in the map.
very few. and most of the time
it is not shown in ancient maps.
And I wondered what if?
On the last morning.
I went to Taposiris Magna.
There was almost no information
about the temple.
Who built it?
But there was something about
the scale. the size.
and the architecture
of the temple.
It had the conditions to be
the final resting place
of Queen Cleopatra.
But despite
Kathleen's hunch.
there was no proof that the
temple was dedicated to Isis.
Unusually. its walls bear
no inscriptions at all.
and 200 years of investigation
had failed to discover
who built the temple. or why.
Taposiris Magna. like
Cleopatra's whereabouts.
is a mystery.
Many years ago.
Kathleen Martinez
came to visit me.
She was very cunning.
She was very smart.
Dr. Zahi was the only
person who could give me
the permits to excavate
Taposiris Magna.
I went into his office.
I get to. to his desk.
He. he told me. "You have two
minutes. What do you want?"
I asked her.
is she an archeologist?
She said. "No. I am a lawyer."
I said to her. "How a lawyer can
be interested in archeology?"
Yes. I'm a lawyer.
But I also have a degree
in archeology.
I wanted to explain
this idea I had.
and I started explaining.
but he was not looking at me.
I tell her. "Go to hell.
Who are you?
You are just a lawyer."
I hit his desk.
I never found in my life
anyone like that.
And he looked at me
angry. very angry.
Said. "I know Cleopatra
was buried inside
the temple of Taposiris Magna."
And then I. I told
him that I will discover
the tomb of Queen Cleopatra.
I said to myself.
when I was young. I was also
obsessed of Cleopatra.
I saw that at that
moment. Dr. Zahi Hawass changed
the idea that he had
about the project.
And I said to Kathleen.
"Kathleen. we are going to work
inside the temple."
I receive the first
license to any archeologist
from the Dominican Republic
to work in Egypt.
It was the greatest news.
Kathleen Martinez was
granted a temporary license
to dig at Taposiris Magna.
If there is
1% of a chance
that the last queen of Egypt
could be buried there.
it's my duty to search for her.
I had to prove that the temple
was dedicated to Goddess Isis.
So there I was. not only
from a not-known country
or without background
in archeology.
but also as a woman.
And I have to lead this team
of archeologists. all men.
and convince them
to follow my decisions.
Today or tomorrow. we're going
to be able to. to explore.
It's so exciting!
Not everyone shared
Kathleen's optimism.
Normally
the expedition receive
a year of approval.
In my case. they only
gave me two months.
In archeology.
two months is nothing.
Well. my
professors in the university.
they all thought that
this site is finished.
They thought that we are joking
to look for the queen tomb
in Taposiris Magna.
Everybody here
at the site were disappointed
we didn't find anything.
We didn't even find
pottery or nothing.
Everything was difficult
for me at that time.
I. I was losing my team.
They didn't believe in me.
They confronted me and told me.
"You're not going
to find anything."
We get into the last week
of the project.
I haven't discovered anything.
I continued working
with Mohammed Nabil
in one of the new locations
I chose to excavate.
Suddenly. a chamber
started to open.
My own team start to think
that maybe I could be right.
Just enough
for Kathleen's permit
to be extended and to return
the following year.
We start
the digging again.
and I realize that this is
something strange.
and I start to notice
this piece of blue glass.
Everybody start jumping.
even some of
the team members cried.
It was the foundation plates.
I consider the foundation plates
like the black box of the plane.
Nobody can doubt on it.
It tell you who
builds this place
and in what time it was built.
These are foundation plates.
This is very. very hard to see.
but there is inscriptions there
in Greek and hieroglyphics.
The most important thing is
that to whom this temple
was dedicated. and it was
dedicated to Goddess Isis.
Everything changed for.
from that moment.
because at the beginning
it was only a theory.
but then with archeological
evidence I was able to prove
what no other archeologist
or Egyptologist
has been able to prove.
And that was just the start.
Within weeks of
the foundation plates.
Kathleen uncovered more
extraordinary finds--
hundreds of bronze coins.
When Kathleen found
the coins. a lot of coins.
that has the face
and the name of Cleopatra.
This really what made me
to continue.
The coins were found
inside the temple's
mammisi chapel
and were an offering
to the Goddess Isis.
I'm gonna cry.
I'm so happy.
Kathleen Martinez.
an outsider
in the world of archeology.
had found a direct link
from Taposiris Magna
to Queen Cleopatra.
In Egypt.
real-life treasure hunters
may be on the verge of
one of the most important
archeological discoveries
of modern times:
the tomb of Cleopatra.
The latest
discoveries in a land
blessed with an embarrassment
of archeological riches.
People came from Japan.
from Europe. from America.
to visit this place after
the great discoveries we made.
One of the most
striking discoveries
was a fragment of a massive
stone tablet. or stela.
etched with historical details.
Taposiris Magna has
been told not important.
an unfinished temple. not known.
and this discovery
changed it all.
The discovery of this stela
inside Taposiris Magna
established the temple as one
of the most important one
worshiping Isis in Egypt.
Finding the stela
totally rewrite
the history of Taposiris Magna.
The stela is Ptolemaic.
and predates Cleopatra.
but is identical to one found
at a temple with a known link
to the queen. Philae.
Not long after she was crowned.
Cleopatra was exiled
by her younger brother.
plunging the country
into civil war.
Unbound. Cleopatra appealed to
the Roman leader Julius Caesar.
who was in Egypt
to restore peace.
He supported her claim
to the throne.
and the two formed an alliance
which became
a passionate affair.
Cleopatra was really
an astute politician.
an intelligent woman.
but a lot of what comes down
to us. in terms of literature.
is related to Cleopatra's
intimate relationships.
This sometimes winds up
driving the narrative.
which is not quite fair.
I think. because what it does is
it sort of sidelines anything
that Cleopatra herself
had to offer. other than sex.
She was actually a very.
very clever strategist.
Cleopatra is said
to have taken Caesar on a tour
up the Nile.
showing him the wonders
of her already ancient Egypt.
Can you imagine when
Cleopatra also came with Caesar
2.000 years ago?
On their
famous journey. yes.
Yes.
Visiting all
the holy temples in the Nile.
It's beautiful.
One of the sites
they are said to have visited
is the most important temple
dedicated to the Goddess Isis.
in the south of Egypt
at Philae.
We are in
the sanctuary of Isis.
Very few people could enter.
only the priest. priestesses
of Isis. king and queens.
So once. more than
2.000 years ago.
Cleopatra was right here
with Julius Caesar.
I believe that the most
important religious center
for Isis in the south
was Philae.
and the most important one in
the north was Taposiris Magna.
Since Kathleen's
realization
that Taposiris Magna was
the most important Isis temple
in the north of Egypt.
her search has taken on
an even greater determination.
This is beautiful.
Yes. it's very beautiful.
Typical Ptolemaic.
With thousands
of artifacts
since recovered from the site.
And you still
have all of this?
Yes. yes. yes.
This place was full
of people. crowded with people
2.000 years ago.
speaking another language.
having another culture.
and you suddenly enter
this place. full of magic.
Kathleen.
another coin here.
Another coin?
Yes.
Okay.
Oh!
Another three coins.
Three coins.
Yes.
In victory. the
Romans deliberately destroyed
images of Cleopatra. leaving
only a handful of likenesses
to have survived.
Usually.
these kind of coins
are portraying our queen.
Only seven statues
thought to be Cleopatra
have ever been found.
Each depicting the queen in
her Greek or Egyptian style.
That's the nose.
mouth. and the chin.
Yes. this is Cleopatra.
With so few images
of Cleopatra in existence.
every coin found offers
a rare glimpse of her.
as she wished to be seen.
This is so beautiful.
There has been
incredible discoveries
that validate my theory.
but still the most important
objective is to discover
the tomb of Queen Cleopatra.
But you have to understand that
I am putting together a puzzle.
Tantalizingly.
the team have uncovered tombs
at Taposiris Magna. some
containing rich offerings.
meaning people of high status
were buried here.
Kathleen believes that
Cleopatra was. too.
You have a lot of peoples
all over the world.
following your work.
always asking.
when you will find the tomb?
When you will find the tomb?
They think that
you will just
use a key and you will
enter the tomb.
It's not like this. okay.
So this put us
under a lot of pressure.
You can never assume.
You have to go
all the way and be sure.
This is what happened
with previous excavations.
that they assumed
there was nothing.
and by inches. I discover.
I made big discoveries.
where they. where they stopped.
So I don't want this
to happen to me.
I want to go all the way
to the bottom and be sure
when I leave an area that
it's completely excavated.
Kathleen's
determination and tenacity
mirrors that of her heroine.
After a three-year union
with Cleopatra.
Julius Caesar was
brutally assassinated.
Cleopatra lost her protection.
and a dangerous power vacuum
was created in Rome.
An uneasy alliance was formed
between the two men
seen as his successors.
his nephew Octavian
and Mark Antony.
his most trusted general.
To keep Egypt safe. Cleopatra
needed Rome's backing.
She had to choose a side.
Cleopatra might not
have had an army.
but she did have riches.
and so she could buy an army.
and she wanted one of the best.
Mark Antony was
the leader of the fifth legion.
which was one of the most
powerful. lethal legion
that the Romans had.
She knew
he wanted wealth.
and she wanted military power.
Cleopatra decided
that she would go
to meet with Antony.
So. to show him her wealth.
she makes a very
dramatic entrance.
She stage-managed
beautifully.
Cleopatra prepared
this incredible boat
with luxuries that nobody
has ever seen before.
Cleopatra's boat itself
had silver oars
and a golden stern. so the whole
thing was glittering.
Cleopatra came
showing Mark Antony
all the possibilities if they
start an alliance together.
She came with these ideas
that nobody ever had.
things that looked
kind of craziness.
but were very effective.
I see her as a mastermind
who had to solve
all kind of problems.
She was unique.
A true leader in the region.
As first dates go.
it was quite phenomenal.
It was a very
intelligent move.
This alliance changed
the course of history.
But it would eventually lead
to Cleopatra's downfall.
After weeks of preparations.
the team are ready to start
the next phase
of their investigation.
to try and identify where
the tunnel might lead.
Let me tell you
what we have scanned.
The entire tunnel that
we have excavated
is now completely scanned.
That's great.
Wow.
The tunnel is huge.
the length is almost
two. three kilometers.
This is a huge human effort.
Kathleen has
unearthed one of the longest
ancient tunnels
ever found in Egypt.
Now it has been scanned
and forensically mapped.
she's ready for Bob Ballard
to find out why it's
pointed out to sea.
Why did you pick this one
over all those other temples?
Because it has
no information.
there was no information
about this temple at all.
Why?
Why did they leave
this one out?
Yes.
That's your training in law.
Exactly.
And crime scenes.
Why? This is not normal.
People kept saying
she didn't know
what she was talking about.
that she was wrong.
and I've had people say that to
me. so I sympathized with her.
I've always had a dream.
and so I'm. I'm sympathetic
to people who have dreams.
For Kathleen.
this tunnel could be
a major development in
the search for Cleopatra.
Welcome!
A tunnel like this would
have been the perfect way
for Cleopatra to have her body
moved after her death.
I was searching and
then I found this shaft.
I mean it must have
been a dream come true.
Nobody would make
a construction like this
without a purpose.
Cleopatra understood
that her new power
came with potentially
grave consequences.
After she began her
relationship with Mark Antony.
his rival Octavian
was deeply concerned.
Cleopatra was a
powerful woman who was capable
of ruling a very
powerful country.
In Rome. this kind of ambition
in a woman was seen as a threat.
Egyptian women were far
privileged in the ancient world
than any other
sort of civilization.
especially against the Romans.
The Romans and the Greeks
were dreadful to women.
So. in Egypt.
you could own property.
you could buy and sell things.
you could inherit.
you could run your own business.
you could divorce.
In short.
Cleopatra was someone
the Romans considered
dangerous.
a woman in a position of power.
Cleopatra knew
how much the Romans hated her.
so she could not go
to these monumental tombs
of other pharaohs.
or to a pyramid.
I believe she prepare
a way to be smuggled
inside the tunnels
to Taposiris Magna.
Someone was
hiding something.
and that someone was
probably Cleopatra.
That's what I believe.
Yes. And so she is coming
up with the best strategy
to make sure you never
find her tomb.
Yes. and this.
she could easily do it
through the tunnels.
Yes.
The scans suggest
the tunnel may stretch out
under the Mediterranean Sea.
If it does.
the question is. why?
I think that part
of Taposiris Magna
could be underwater today.
In the 4th century.
a huge earthquake and tsunami
all but destroyed Alexandria.
Swathes of the city
and the region's coastline
were lost to the sea.
The most famous
cartographers in the world.
Italian. French.
has drawn these maps.
Ancient maps confirm
the existence of this peninsula.
Yep.
The other maps also show...
one or two islands
connected to. to the temple.
This is big.
So the idea is to do
a recon of this area.
Alright. I think we have a plan.
Bob's plan is
to find the line
of the submerged tunnel.
find out where it leads.
and to what.
I've found a lot of things
in the ocean.
but I've never had
an arrow like this one.
This is an important discovery
waiting for us offshore.
Kathleen's
search for Cleopatra
is now both on land and at sea.
Her team tripling in size.
I have never done
anything this big.
Everybody's arriving.
We have scientists.
Hello.
We have underwater
archeologists.
Welcome.
How are you?
We have archeological teams.
Really very excited.
I couldn't sleep last night.
Yeah. all of us
like this. yes. yes. of course.
I hope I can bring
many bones for you to study.
Yeah. I hope. too.
And my mission is
to support what you're doing.
Thank you so much.
It's an honor to meet you.
No. it's an honor
to meet you.
We are sending divers
to explore areas
that are of interest
for our search.
It's a real adventure. huh?
You know that.
We met with the navy.
Yeah.
They begin tomorrow.
Oh. this is good.
To guide your
dive program. yes.
Finally. we've got
everything we need
to. to move forward.
The beauty of looking
for Cleopatra...
she really existed.
So that's the beauty of it.
she's somewhere.
Out at sea.
the team quickly learns
that visual signs
of the tunnel.
a collapse or an entrance.
is impossible to locate.
Instead. Bob has instructed
the Egyptian Navy
to work along the projected
line it would have taken.
Keep going on
the current bearing.
Using multiple sonar
scanners. the navy are able
to create a detailed picture
of the seafloor.
Their team will only
have four weeks
to map and explore the area.
Hopefully we find her.
Once the scans have
identified an area of interest.
Bob will send divers
to explore the site.
Their hope?
To find structures which may
have been above sea level
during Cleopatra's lifetime.
So. last night. the navy
came and dropped by the.
dropped the data off for us
to process and investigate.
We got really excited
because we saw some
very interesting features.
These are rectilinear blocks.
They're on the order of
60 meters long from end to end.
and they're about
a couple meters high.
They really stand out
against the. the local reef.
I think we need to get
there as soon we can.
So. let's suit up.
The moment of discovery
is addictive.
and I've been lucky over my life
to have a lot of those
amazing moments.
and you just want more of them.
So. I'm. I'm hoping for
some amazing moments here.
What?
What have you seen?
Nothing.
Oh.
Natural blocks.
Blocks?
Natural.
Natural blocks.
Yeah. I saw nothing.
Oh.
There's definitely
real estate out there
that appears to have sunk
beneath the sea.
to which the tunnel is pointing.
so our job is to find it.
Yup. just keep
the momentum going.
In very shallow water.
your sonar can only see
a narrow band.
maybe three meters
of water visibility.
so this is actually a lot more
difficult than you think.
Any structures?
Any man-made objects?
No. not yet.
Normal seabed. Nothing.
What we're looking for
is a submerged landmass.
and our mapping exercise
will tell us
if there's something there.
or not.
What I worry about is
running out of time.
We just found some
some little rocks.
like stone rocks.
or sandy rocks.
Fundamentally. you saw
nothing looked like man-made?
No. no. Absolutely not.
If Cleopatra's trying
to hide her location.
you don't put a sign on it.
Very rectangular.
very regular.
but I mean. just without
a doubt. it's natural.
We. we don't have anything.
We are running
out of time.
It was impossible.
I'm concerned.
because of... everything.
Yeah. yeah.
But this is not easy.
definitely not been easy.
By 34 BC. times were
about to get tough
for Cleopatra. too.
She found herself in the eye
of a political storm.
While she ruled Egypt.
Mark Antony went to war.
handing the new lands and Roman
territories to their children.
to proclaim Cleopatra
Queen of Kings.
In Rome.
the ideal woman was quiet.
subservient and basically did
what her lord and master
told her to.
So. when Mark Antony
hails Cleopatra
as being Queen of Kings.
this goes against everything
that Rome stood for.
Octavian.
Mark Antony's rival.
was outraged. believing
the couple were a threat
to Rome itself.
Cleopatra is seen
as dangerous.
and she's perceived as
conniving and sinister.
Octavian was terrified
of the potential of Mark Antony
and Cleopatra coming to claim
Rome as part of Egypt.
Instead of accusing
fellow Roman Mark Antony.
Octavian focuses his anger
on the foreign and female
Cleopatra.
Octavian was
not known as being
a great military commander. but
he was a very astute politician.
and he knew the value
of propaganda.
This is just laying the baseline
for what Octavian wants to do.
Dipping a spear into pig's blood
and then hurling it
to the direction of the east.
saying. you know. "I declare war
on Cleopatra and Egypt."
After almost
four weeks of searching at sea.
the team have found nothing.
And they're nearing the end
of the dive season.
There is less days
to continue working.
How many left now? Five?
- Five.
- Five days.
Frustrated at
the lack of progress.
Kathleen orders a recalibration
of the tunnel's exact path.
What is the GPS point
of that one.
so Paola can place it in land?
Trying to be
as precise as possible
with the few days
they have left.
We. we are
applying the laser
to find out where
the tunnel runs.
This is the exact position.
We know exactly where it goes.
They use the scans
to pinpoint a new search area
and send the navy
to investigate.
So are they covering
from that kilometer over there?
All the way down.
right now.
This is the. the most
important area to explore.
There is interference
on the map.
Have we switched
on the sonar. right?
What does this look like to you?
Does it look like reefs?
Its shape is strange. really.
Turn around and go back over it.
Here it is. it is visible
in its entirety.
So here.
- That's it.
- Yeah.
So. that's a feature.
Let the diving operations
know to dive there.
Yes. at once. straightaway.
We found a very interesting
feature here.
I will send you the positions.
So this is
this new feature.
This is the new feature.
Zoom in maybe a little.
So that is very unusual.
What could it be?
I have no idea.
The question is. was it crafted
by human action?
Because that is unique.
Look at this.
it is not normal.
That's not normal.
And so that's.
I want to make sure
that's where they dive.
And that's the.
that's the new target. right?
These are for...
Yeah.
Wow!
Look at that.
Nowhere else have we seen that.
Colossal structures.
arranged in rows.
and over 21 feet high
tower over the seafloor.
I've been doing this for
50 years. I've been underwater.
I've never seen
anything like this.
This is clearly.
looks like it's man-made.
Typically man-made when you have
those very precise square edges.
There's no way
that's natural.
There's not a chance.
Oh. my god!
I have never seen
anything like it.
And more finds
quickly follow.
Lucky man!
We found anchors.
Anchors?
Yeah.
Oh. we found anchors.
Then incredibly.
the team discover
a defining feature
of human construction.
We have a surprise for you.
A surprise?
Smooth stone.
A highly polished floor.
It's like 100 meter
by 100 meter.
With the discoveries
of amphora. multiple anchors.
a polished floor.
and towering columns.
the team believe they have
uncovered an ancient port.
lost to the sea
at Taposiris Magna.
This is one of those
moments that you feel so alive.
I'm trying to reach Bob!
Kathleen.
Kathleen wants to talk.
Hello. Bob.
Hello! How are you?
You know the news?
It couldn't be better than this.
There's a great visibility.
the divers are down.
they've discovered a port.
Oh.
I have a very big smile
on my face. so.
I'm chilling the wine
as we speak.
There is an island
with a harbor.
It has a tunnel leading
from the temple.
we think. to that very spot.
This doesn't get any better.
You got it.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
It's yours.
Oh. my god!
Wow!
After 2.000 years.
Nobody has ever been there.
No?
We are the first ones.
Back on land.
the team use the scan data
to create a detailed model.
trying to piece together
what the site might
have looked like
during Cleopatra's lifetime.
So. this is a picture
back into time.
before this whole area subsided.
Yes.
You also have coral
growing on top of it.
So what we need to do next
is to drill in
to see what that column
is actually made of.
We don't know what
the coral could be hiding.
Yeah.
It could be
easily columns.
Yeah.
It could be statues.
Let's look at
what we know.
We have found a port that
the tunnel is pointing at.
It's getting exciting.
Well. I am just
trying to wonder
who. who walked
through this place.
Going back into time
and imagining this being
occupied by humans.
We certainly know from all
the dating we're able to do
that this was the time
of Cleopatra.
As well as re-mapping
the ancient coastline.
Kathleen believes that
the discovery may bring us
closer than ever before to
understanding the circumstances
surrounding Cleopatra's death.
After three years
of rising tensions.
Cleopatra and
Mark Antony prepare
to take on the might of Rome.
150.000 men and 900 ships faced
off in an enormous battle.
The really great battle
that was the turning point was
the Battle of Actium in 31 BC.
Antony and Cleopatra were
defeated by Octavian.
Roman historians
wrote in detail
about what happened next.
Antony is defeated
in battle. he's a broken man.
Then Antony takes a sword.
hurts himself and bleeds.
but does not kill himself.
His bleeding body is
transported to Alexandria.
Cleopatra is locked up
in the massive mausoleum.
and then according to the
stories. he dies in her arms.
It is certainly
a bold and romantic account.
but one that Kathleen
believes is flawed.
There's no way
that a general
will attempt to kill himself
so poorly.
He killed people on a daily
basis with his own hands.
He knew how to kill.
These Roman sources
want to humiliate Mark Antony.
and they show him
as a cowardly figure.
In a way it's rather
a pathetic end for someone
who was supposed to be such a
brave general like Mark Antony.
We have to remember. history is
written by the victors.
At the age of 39. Cleopatra's
world was collapsing around her.
her empire was gone.
and her great love and husband.
Mark Antony. lay dead.
At this point. the worst thing
that could happen would be
to be taken in chains to Rome
as a trophy to be cat-called.
to be harassed. and to lose her
dignity as queen and goddess
in front of the Romans.
The fact that
Cleopatra wasn't paraded
through Rome.
suggests that somehow
she managed to take control
of her own death.
She was not afraid to die.
She just want to do it in a way
that she felt she will be
together with Mark Antony
for that eternal life.
There's no evidence
of how Cleopatra died.
but as with so much
of her story.
an unshakeable myth
quickly emerged.
Killing herself with
the bite from a venomous cobra
was one of the most dramatic
and infamous in history.
She chose death
with dignity and honor.
Kathleen's theory is
that after her death.
Cleopatra's body was brought
to Taposiris Magna
and carried through the tunnel.
before being laid to rest
within the walls. hidden and
out of reach of the Romans.
And she plans
to keep searching.
until she finds proof.
Hello? Hello? Yes.
What do you have?
Oh. great. okay. I'm coming.
Okay. we make a discovery.
After the end
of the sea expedition.
the team turn their attention
back to the temple.
Close to one of the walls.
radar scans have
flagged an anomaly.
Wow!
The team have
started to unearth
parts of an extremely rare
foundation deposit.
Wow!
Oh. my god!
Wow! Wow!
Kathleen believes
it was placed there
during a ritual ceremony.
when the walls of
Taposiris Magna were built.
In archeology.
you never know what will happen
in the next second
of the excavation.
and this is the greatness of
digging and doing archeology.
We have been inside this room
for hundreds of times.
without knowing that all this
treasure is under our feet.
Most of the things
that we have discovered
are all from the time
of Queen Cleopatra.
Oh. my god.
And there are more coming out.
It seems like a...
small treasure. Ha!
- Another coin?
- Yes.
Many of the finds
are specifically datable
to the time of Cleopatra.
These small coins
are the ones
that Cleopatra implemented.
so all the Egyptians were
able to see her image.
Wow.
48. 49. 50. 51.
Wow!
We discovered
more than 230 coins.
I believe this is
Cleopatra's dad.
This is Ptolemy XII Auletes.
this is what I believe.
For Kathleen.
this specific find
makes the connection personal;
Cleopatra means
"glory of the father."
Kathleen.
There is another piece.
- More?
- Yes.
From this?
Yes.
But the most
extraordinary find
is yet to come.
Oh. my god!
We found it!
God bless your hands!
Yes!
Same nose.
same hair.
same everything!
It's really Cleopatra!
It's Cleopatra!
Yes!
Oh. my god!
Perfect little nose.
Look at this.
Oh. my god!
Oh. that's magnificent.
Look at this.
Beautiful.
Kathleen. beautiful.
- Look.
- Yes.
Look at the hair.
Yes. It's tiny
but full of details.
Beautiful Queen Cleopatra.
Yes.
There are only
seven in the world.
Yes.
And now...
For the queen.
For Queen Cleopatra.
because the Romans...
Destroyed all.
Yes. they. they want
to vanish Cleopatra
from history.
Then we. we found...
The eighth.
Magnificent.
With this discovery.
we have changed history.
And with these details and
everything. it's complete.
Well. it's very
beautiful. Kathleen.
I'm very happy for you.
For all of us.
Yes. exactly.
But it started with
your dream. you know.
Kathleen will work
with independent experts
to confirm the bust's identity.
Although some are yet
to be convinced.
Kathleen has no doubt that
given the statue's features.
crown. location.
and datable coins.
this is indeed Cleopatra.
I finally am
face to face
with my heroine.
Your driving engine
is your passion.
and you get knocked down.
and the only thing
that's gonna get you up
is your passion. your dream.
I wanted to be Captain Nemo.
Kathleen wanted to be Cleopatra.
Kathleen came
with an idea.
the idea that really captured
my head and my heart.
The idea of the search
for Cleopatra.
You know. she has passion.
if you have passion for anything
small. you make it big.
By relentlessly
following the evidence.
Kathleen Martinez has shown
that the great queen
was really here.
and perhaps still is.
Cleopatra.
She was special.
not only for women at that time.
but even for women today.
Cleopatra.
She opened up the world
for all of us.
Cleopatra.
She lost her life.
she lost Egypt.
but she won in another form.
because she has never
been forgotten.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm